The following repository is made with the intention of showing the work made by Luis Rodriguez and Alejandro Padilla for the FUTURE ENGINEERS WRO competition 2025.
The team decided to exploit all the capabilities of the ESP32 microcontroller family capabilities within the possibilities given by the ARDUINO IDE. The main functions of the Autonomous Car are made by the ESP32 WROOM Dev Module, which reads sensors and controls both steering and speed, while the ESP32-CAM its only in charge of color recognition, communicating the data with the ESP32 via Serial Communication. The Way the camera tracks colors is by making the image into kind of a matrix, identifying HSV values, dividing the image in 5-7 sections and communicating what color is the most present and where it’s located.
As it is our first prototype, we did the whole project on a perf board, but there are plans to make it into a professional PCB soon when we gather more resources. The wiring was designed on Ki-CAD, while the mechanical part was made in SolidWorks, a CAD software that our university gives us being students.
The car moves thanks to a Pololu motor in the back part, which pushes both wheels at the same speed thanks to a small gearbox, and the steering is in charge of your typical Servo motor of 90 grams.
The sensors used for the distance measurement were the VL53L0X ToF Infrarred sensors, which work with I2C communication. They have proven to be reliable once adjusted, and even though black objects can cause some trouble, we have worked as a team to find solutions. Apart from them, we are also using an MPU-6050 for accurate turns.
Since we aren’t using a computer like Raspberry, our prototype can run drawing little current, but still, we are using two different batteries to feed the circuit, one is for all the sensing and the brains, while other is just for the motor to run without problems. Both of them are 7.4 volts 600 mAh Li-po batteries, but for one of them we have a 5V regulator to avoid overheating in the microcontrollers. 
One of the attempts to use the ESP32 CAM was using AI with Edge Impulse, but instead of relying on them, we opted to use basic color tracking, which can be seen in the uploaded code. It’s worth noting that we used a version that already has USB compatibility, but the common one with or without Shield should be able to run it the same way. The only downside of this method is that we can’t see the ESP32 CAM view, we can only read what we receive from the Serial Console.
In another version we might unlock the ADC_2 pins to be able to connect to the internet or ESP-NOW for debugging purposes. But as for now we are sticking with what already worked for use, and this code can be useful for anyone trying to use Servos and Motors at the same time, because it’s quite different from Arduino and a bit harder to get this done in a ESP32.
